315483 secrets management updates (#113)
osisoft/PI-Adapter: shared-content/management/secrets/reference-secrets.md

---
uid: ReferenceSecrets
---

# Reference Secrets

> Secrets can be referenced by their Id in any configuration that has a protected property, such as client secret or password.

Reviewer: Minor wording:
Secrets can be referenced by their Id in any configuration with protected property, such as a client secret or password.

> Secrets can be referenced by their Id in any configuration that has a protected property, such as client secret or password.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Secrets can be referenced by their Id in any configuration through a protected property, such as a client secret or password.
```

## Reference Secrets by Id

> To use a secret in another configuration, the value of the protected property may be replaced with `{{<secretId>}}`, where secretId 
> is an existing id in the secret management configuration.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To use a secret in another configuration, the value of the protected property can be replaced with `{{<secretId>}}`, where `secretId` is an existing id in the secret management configuration.
```

### Example

If a secret Id and value already exist in the secret management configuration, for example:

```code
{

>     ""Id": "secret-id",

Reviewer 3: I see reference to "secretId" in a different section and "secret-id" in this one. Can we be consistent with the term for these examples?

    "Value": "<secretValue>""
}
```
The secret Id can be referenced in any configuration with a protected property, such as client secret or password.

For example, in a health configuration with a PWA and OCS endpoint "{{secret-id}}" can be substituted in the protected properties:

```code
[
    {
        "Id": "OCS",
        "Endpoint": "https://<OCS OMF endpoint>",
        "ClientId": "<clientid>",
        "ClientSecret": "{{secret-id}}"
    },
    {
        "Id": "PI Web API",
        "Endpoint": "https://<pi web api server>:<port>/piwebapi/omf/",
        "UserName": "<username>",

>         "Password": "{{secret-id}}"

Reviewer 3: Another consistency comment - for the password value in the previous section's example, i see "{{<secretId>}}". This doesn't have the < >.

Author: I updated all the spots that have "secret-Id" or something similar to be "<secretId>" and "{{<secretId>}}" to be consistent with the rest of the documentation. Does that seem clear?

    }
]
```

## Adding Secrets by Value

> The default behavior of any configuration with a protected property is to add the value into the secrets management configuration, automatically generate a secret id, 
> and replace the value of the protected property on the configuration to be the generated secret id.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The default behavior of any configuration with a protected property is to add the value into the secrets management configuration, automatically generate a secret id, and replace the value of the protected property on the configuration to be the generated secret id.
```

### Example

> Adding in a health configuration as follows, with a string client secret

Reviewer: Would using `with actual client secret string` worked?

Author: what about `with a string client secret <clientsecret>` ?

Reviewer: We might ask @aveva-jhwang to help out here :)

Author: I updated the entire example a little bit to be `Add a health configuration with a client secret value <clientsecret>` for the time being

Author: Discussed this with Jiyeon as well and we will leave it as 
`Add a health configuration with a client secret value <clientsecret>:`

> Adding in a health configuration as follows, with a string client secret

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Add a health configuration with a client secret string as follows, 
```

```code
[
    {
        "Id": "OCS",
        "Endpoint": "https://<OCS OMF endpoint>",
        "ClientId": "<clientid>",
        "ClientSecret": "<clientsecret>"
    }
]
```

> updates the secrets management configuration to add the following id and value:

Reviewer: Should we mention that the value gets encrypted?

Author: We discussed this and the line added in with the note underneath here resolves this conversation

```code
{
    "Id": "System.HealthEndpoints.OCS.ClientSecret",
    "Value": "<clientsecret>"
}
```

> and replaces the string password in the health configuration to now reference the client secret value by secret Id:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and replaces the string password in the health configuration to reference the client secret value by secret Id:
```
